# Indians
*---Disaster Information System (DIS) ---*
Github Repository for Codefundo++
  Disaster is an event which threatens society with unwanted consequences. It is associated with disruption of normal pattern of life, negative effects on human life and social structure. It victimizes large number of people and cause social and economical losses.
   Disasters are characterized by the scope of an emergency. An emergency becomes a disaster when it exceeds the capability of the local resources to manage it. Disasters often result in great damage, loss, or destruction. Natural disasters include those unplanned events that occur as a result of natural processes such as earthquakes, tornadoes, tsunami, freezes, blizzards, extreme heat or cold, drought, or insect infestation.
   Usually most affected by natural and other disasters are the poor and socially disadvantaged groups in developing countries as they are least equipped to cope with the events.  It is the communities and human settlements which need to be prepared as it is the communities who need to react first and it is the habitats, which need to be strengthened to withstand the forces of hazards.
   An advance system of forecasting, monitoring and issuing early warnings plays the most significant part in determining whether a natural hazard will assume disastrous proportions or not.
   We Want to developed the world’s first of its kind multilingual disaster alert system  Disaster Information System (DIS) – that will transmit Tsunami and cyclone warning through mobile phones in the form of SMS, within seconds of a weather satellite or an earthquake observatory giving alert signals.   The SMS alerts will be made in over 100 languages including regional languages like Tamil, Kannada, Telugu, Bengali, Malayalam, Hindi and Oriya. The SMS alerts will be followed by voice alerts on the mobile phones.
   With an increase in the perception towards spreading a culture of prevention in the disaster management scenario, considerable emphasis is now being placed on research and development activities in the area of information technology for disaster preparedness and prevention. This has brought in a significant positive change even though the multitude and frequency of disasters in the country has increased . In most critical phases of some major disasters like earthquakes in Kobe, Japan; Northridge, California and turkey role of electronic communication has provided the most effective, and in some instances perhaps the only means of communication with the outside world. The changing trends have opened up a large number of scientific and technological resources and skills to reduce disaster risk.
   Information Technology is changing every aspect of human life. It enhances the quality and effectiveness of trade, manufacturing, services, other aspects of human life such as education, research, culture, entertainment, communication, national security, etc. Disaster management needs drastic improvements in its sources to decrease damage and save the life of people. To achieve this main object, disaster management has to face challenges for data collection, data management, translation integration and communication. IT pays crucial role in this respect. The advanced techniques of information technology such as remote sensing, satellite communication, GIS, etc. can help in planning and implementation of disaster management.
